[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
Vicki Joy Anderson is with us,
an author of the paranormal.
And she has researched the
sleep paralysis phenomenon
for 10 years after
experiencing sleep paralysis
for more than 45 years.
Her book is called "They
Only Come Out at Night."
Vicki, welcome to the program.
>>VICKI JOY ANDERSON:
Thanks, George.
Thanks for having me on.
>>NOORY: 45 years,
you've been at this?
>>ANDERSON: That's a long
time to be chasing and getting
away from that.
But yep, probably since I
was about three years old.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
Well, explain what
sleep paralysis is.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.
I think, personally, I think
the phrase is a little bit
deceptive.
I think there's probably
a better word for it
because everyone has sleep
paralysis every night
several times.
It's a physiological
aspect of our sleep cycles.
When we go into deep
sleeps and REM sleep,
our body naturally shuts down.
And this is for
protection, or we
would be getting up and
possibly stumbling downstairs
or walking into traffic.
So there's nothing
unusual, supernatural,
or paranormal about our body
going into states of paralysis
while we sleep.
What people really
mean when they
say sleep paralysis
is a phenomenon that
during this state of
paralysis, the veil thins.
These altered states
of consciousness,
as we come in and out of
sleep, become liminal spaces.
And we see into
spiritual realms,
which unfortunately
for most people,
is a terrifying experience.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Sometimes, I sleep
on the edge of my bed,
but I don't fall off.
Is that because I'm probably
undergoing sleep paralysis
in my sleep state?
>>ANDERSON: Very well
could be, George.
I know a lot of people--
some people toss and turn
quite a bit.
But then there's
other people, where
they wake up in the exact same
position as they fell asleep.
And these states of paralysis,
they're common, they're normal.
In fact, when this paralysis
ceases to function correctly,
that's where we have things like
sleepwalking or even bedwetting
because those are
things that shut down.
>>NOORY: When we sleep.
How did you get
involved in all of this?
>>ANDERSON: Against my
will, really, George.
It started happening to me,
as best as I can remember,
three years old.
It may have happened sooner.
But who can recollect
to that point?
And so it really wasn't
until I was in my teens
that I started to have
a curiosity about it.
I think when you're
little, you just
think everything's a bad dream.
You don't necessarily start
connecting dots or coming up
with theories.
And in high school, I think I
was really into dark things.
In high school, I was watching
all the horror movies.
And this was the '80s.
So everything was like--
>>NOORY: You enjoyed that?
>>ANDERSON: I did.
I migrated towards
dark literature,
HP Lovecraft, Edgar Allan Poe.
I was into dark music.
And so because I was fascinated
with things that were dark,
I became fascinated with
the sleep paralysis.
But it really wasn't until my
40s that the fascination waned.
And I got to the point
where I was unsatisfied
with the silly explanations
and official narratives that
are given on the internet.
And I wanted to
come to the bottom.
Why is this happening to me?
I never asked for this.
And I'm starting to
understand that this
is happening to a lot of people,
which I didn't know previously.
And at that point, I went into
journalist mode, research mode.
And I decided I want to
figure out what this is.
>>NOORY: How important was the
internet for your research?
>>ANDERSON: It was
absolutely crucial.
When I was in my 30s,
I was falling asleep
listening to podcasts.
And so there was an apologetic--
>>NOORY: And my show, I hope.
>>ANDERSON: Oh, of course.
>>NOORY: Thank you.
>>ANDERSON: Of course.
One of the shows I listened to,
simply because it was lengthy
and it would give me
enough time to fall asleep
and then it wouldn't wake me up
when the end of the show music
came roaring on, was
an apologetics podcast
that ran about three hours.
And one night, they
were doing a show on,
what is the deal with this
sudden interest in all
of this paranormal stuff,
ghost hunting, and all
of these things.
This is probably
about 15 years ago.
And I fell asleep.
And I woke up in the
middle of the night
just as they were talking about
sleep paralysis, a phrase,
up to that point in
my life, I had never--
>>NOORY: Synchronicity
at its best.
>>ANDERSON: Absolutely.
Never heard the term
"sleep paralysis."
I had chills run all
the way through my body
as they gave that phrase.
I couldn't believe
that someone, verbatim,
was explaining the exact
same phenomenon that I
had been encountering
my whole life, which
I thought was exclusive to me.
I didn't know anyone else
was going through this.
>>NOORY: Everybody
goes through this.
>>ANDERSON: Everybody,
unbeknownst to me.
So the next day-- and again,
this was 15 years ago or more,
so the internet even then
wasn't what it is today.
And so I don't even know
if Google was around.
So somehow, I did a search
for sleep paralysis.
And what came up wasn't a lot
of information but message
boards where hundreds of people
were sharing their stories.
And I couldn't
believe that it was
the exact same situation, the
same sights, the same sounds.
And I thought, now,
this is curious.
Because if this was just
nightmares or bad dreams
or that bad slice of pizza
you eat too much too close
to bedtime, why
would everyone be
seeing the same characters
and the same feelings
and hearing the same voices
and getting the same messages?
And that's when I knew there's
something more to this.
>>NOORY: Vicki, would you
say that 9 out of 10 people
experienced sleep paralysis?
>>ANDERSON: I would say that
would be a fair estimate if you
count all the people
that have, maybe, only
had it once or twice in
their life, as well as,
George, what I'm finding now.
Is, there are a
lot of people that
have sleep paralysis that have
no recollection in the morning
that they've had it.
But they're finding out because
a spouse or a college roommate
will express to
them the next day,
you were calling
out in your sleep,
you were crying out
the name of Jesus,
you were waving your arms around
like you were sword fighting.
And they have no
recollection of it.
So what's interesting about
this is that, I think,
sleep paralysis is so
common that there's even
people that have
encountered it that will
have no recollection of it.
>>NOORY: Vicki, tell
us about the book.
How did you decide to write it?
>>ANDERSON: Absolutely.
So "They Only Come Out at
Night, Exposing the Dark Weapon
of Sleep Paralysis,"
this did not
come about with any organized
thought or intention.
I had always wanted
to be a writer.
I wanted to be a writer
since I was 10 years old.
My mom was a writer.
And my little perfect
picture in my mind
is that I would come
up with a pen name.
And I would just write beautiful
poetry in the woods somewhere.
And no one would
ever know who I was.
And I just wanted
to write things that
were beautiful and encouraging.
And what ended up
happening is, I
started writing for an
online magazine that
wanted a biblical perspective
of paranormal and fringe.
>>NOORY: Did they pay you?
>>ANDERSON: No.
Total--
>>NOORY: Gratis, OK.
>>ANDERSON: --volunteer work.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>ANDERSON: And so never despise
small beginnings, as they say.
And so I was just
happy to finally
have an outlet for these two
aspects of my personality
that never seemed
to fit together.
There's part of me that has
this religious and biblical
training.
But then there's
this part of me that
is fascinated with the
spirit realm and these darker
things that, I think,
have significance.
>>NOORY: And you're
mixing the two together.
>>ANDERSON: I was mixing
the two together, exactly.
And so I didn't think
that I would ever
have an opportunity
or a platform
or even an audience
for such a thing.
And so I started writing.
And what was great about
this particular magazine is,
I could write about
whatever I wanted.
There was no slaps on the
hand or editors cutting out
the crazy stuff.
So that really allowed me
to go further and further
into the fringes.
And so I decided,
well, I'm going
to write on sleep
paralysis because I've
gone through it my whole life.
And so clearly, I must
be an expert on it.
And when I actually went
to write the article,
I realized I've experienced
this my entire life.
And if someone actually asked
me who, what, when, where, why,
how, I don't think I could
give them a good explanation.
So that piqued my interest.
And I began to research.
And I began to read.
And I would read everything.
I would read things on Kabbalah.
I would read things
in the occult.
I would read ancient things.
>>NOORY: You were
obsessed with this stuff.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah.
I would read theological things,
biblical things, anywhere
I could get-- and what
I started to realize,
and this touches on the opening
paragraph of HP Lovecraft's
"Call of Cthulhu,"
I started to realize
that the reason that we
are unable to understand
a lot of what's going on
is that the sciences of all
strained in their
own directions.
So they have hitherto
hurt us little.
And if we are able
to get to a place
where we're able to
re-associate allegedly
disassociative knowledge, it
will open up vistas of reality.
And I think part of the
reason why we don't understand
a lot of this stuff is,
Christianity and the church
has completely forbade or made
taboo anything supernatural,
which is bizarre
because the Bible is
an extremely supernatural.
>>NOORY: Other than
exorcisms, of course.
>>ANDERSON: Absolutely.
But then if you delve into
the realms of science,
they explain the
supernatural away.
And it's always brain
firings and narcolepsy
and things like that.
So both sides of the
table have to join hands
and find that some of this
knowledge that we're told
is not associated, if
we pull it back together
and bring it into
the same sphere,
that they are just different
facets of the same diamond.
>>NOORY: Vicki, you
grew up in Virginia.
>>ANDERSON: Yes, I did.
>>NOORY: Something
happened in that house.
>>ANDERSON: It did.
I'm sure in my
heart here, George,
I'm being very vulnerable here.
This was back in the early '70s.
And no one in my family, no one
in the church where we went,
no one would have had an
accurate explanation for what
was going on or seen the
signs or the breadcrumb trail,
so to speak.
We lived there for a year.
And a litany of bizarre,
terrifying events happened.
It was played out like
a Hollywood movie.
>>NOORY: To all of
you or just you?
>>ANDERSON: To my
brother and I, primarily.
I think my brother
got the brunt of it.
My mom told stories
later in her life.
And I don't think that much
happened with my father.
My brother started having
nightly night terrors.
And night terrors is actually
a very separate phenomenon
from sleep paralysis.
>>NOORY: And It's frightening.
>>ANDERSON: It's
very frightening.
He would have them nightly.
And he would sleepwalk.
And my mother
would often wake up
in the middle of the night
with that maternal instinct
premonition.
And she would run into
my brother's room.
And his bed would be empty.
And he would be in the middle
of the street, dodging traffic,
totally oblivious.
>>NOORY: Just not
like sleepwalking.
>>ANDERSON: Sleepwalking,
totally oblivious.
He was impossible to wake up.
And the next morning, he
would have no recollection
of what happened.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>ANDERSON: And I
believe that this
is where I picked up the
sleep paralysis, simply
because I have a lone funny
memory of telling my mom one
night.
I was probably
only three, George.
>>NOORY: That's it?
>>ANDERSON: Only
three years old.
But I remember telling my mom
that I was afraid of the dark
and that I was afraid of
the shadows on the wall.
And she told me, as you
would tell a three-year-old,
she told me, you don't
have to be afraid
because the angels
are watching over you.
And I said, well,
what's an angel?
And because I only got a
three-year-old explanation,
the only thing she said was
they're big, they're bright,
and they're everywhere.
So she left.
And I took that
council very literally.
And I looked around my room.
And I didn't see anything
big or bright or everywhere.
So I decided to investigate.
And I went and
got up out of bed,
and I looked out my window.
And all up and down my street
were these massive streetlights
going all the way up
and down the street.
And they were big,
and they were bright,
and they were everywhere.
So I assumed, hey, there's
a whole bunch of angels
parked outside my window.
I'm cool.
So even though I
can't directly tie
to that I was having sleep
paralysis at that time,
the fact that I have
that memory that I
was afraid of
shadows on the wall,
makes me believe that might
have been where I picked this up
as well.
So what we found out later--
and this is where
we get into the woo.
And this is where
the scientific minds
and the investigative
journalists
will say, well, you
can't prove that.
And I can't.
But what happened later was, we
had a neighbor after we moved
write to my mom and say,
I'm dying of curiosity,
did anything strange ever
happen in your house?
And my mom is a
very private person.
Her cards were very
close to the vest.
And so she played dumb and
said, well, what do you mean?
And the neighbor said,
well, everyone on the block
has this conspiracy theory
that your house is haunted.
And so my mom said,
well, why would you--
where are people
getting that from?
And she said, well,
the home is owned by--
we were renting the home.
The home is owned by
a satanic high priest.
And we've heard that rituals
are done in your basement.
So that didn't mean anything
to us in the 1970s, George.
I mean, that just sounded
preposterous to us.
There's no such thing as a--
>>NOORY: Woo stuff.
>>ANDERSON: --high priest.
Yeah.
So I think we wrote that off
for three decades as silly.
Now that there's
so much disclosure,
and we're finding out so
much more about the spirit
realm and the astral
realm, and we're
able to talk about things now
that you couldn't talk about
without getting the rubber
stamp of schizophrenic
on your forehead.
>>NOORY: You can get
away with it now.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Is it conceivable that
you can use sleep paralysis
to your benefit?
>>ANDERSON: This is a
tough question, George.
This is where I
fear that I'm going
to diverge from the typical
viewer of this show.
And so I just want to preface
what I'm about to say with,
I have no desire to be divisive.
There's too much
division in this world.
I have no desire to set
myself on a pedestal
or advertise some
worldview above another.
>>NOORY: You're not
going to hit me, are you?
>>ANDERSON: I'm not
going to punch you.
But I spent quite a
bit of time trying
to figure out what would
be an appropriate subtitle
for this book.
And I landed upon,
"exposing the dark weapon
of sleep paralysis," knowing
it would be controversial,
knowing it would step on toes,
>>NOORY: All right.
>>ANDERSON: --knowing
that sacred cows
would be slaughtered and
made into leather jackets.
But I really do believe that
sleep paralysis brings us
into a realm, a spiritual realm,
that is filled with rulers,
principalities, archons,
and spiritual forces
that can be very deceptive.
Now, depending on
your ilk, some people
will classify them as lower
and higher vibrational.
Some will say,
angels versus demons.
Some will say, good versus evil.
I think that there's more
categories than just the black
and the white.
But the range of
beings or entities
that live in the high
places, the epouranios, which
would be the Greek word of the
high places of the King James
version, they are
explicitly introduced
as characters that rebelled and
fell from the original heaven
and created their own heaven.
And so I just want
to warn people
who delve very deeply
into these things,
we all delve into
spirituality for pure motives.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: And
yet there's a point
where we can delve too far.
And the metaphor I like
to use for this, George,
is JRR Tolkien's.
In "Fellowship of
the Ring," there's
this beautiful passage
where the narrator
is explaining what happened
to the race of dwarves.
They were living in
the mines of Moria.
And they discovered gold.
And so they dug deeper
and deeper and deeper.
And they were so greedy with
their lust for this wealth.
>>NOORY: They wanted more.
>>ANDERSON: They
wanted more that they
dug deeper and deeper.
And they eventually
dug so deep that they
crossed the threshold.
And they opened up the pit where
the Balrog lived, this dragon.
And the dragon then
leapt through this portal
and consumed them.
And so the metaphor
in that is that we all
start out with pure motives.
Whether you go to a
new age bookstore,
or you go to a seminary, most
people, they want answers.
They want to be a better person.
They want to help other people.
These are all pure,
altruistic motives.
>>NOORY: And these
are all natural.
>>ANDERSON: Absolutely.
We all start out on a
level playing field.
But there's a point where we
can dig so deep that we open up
that pit.
And there is a
Balrog And so I think
that everyone, even Christians
who are pursuing knowledge
in seminary, can go too far.
I've seen plenty
of people come out
of seminary who dug so
deep into this knowledge
that they went too far.
And everything, their whole
worldview flipped on its head.
And so when I say, exposing the
dark weapon of sleep paralysis,
there are aspects of
the heavenly realms,
of the astral realm, that
we do not understand.
And what's fascinating
to me, George,
I did a deep dive researching
Ephesians 6:12, which
talks about the high places,
which in worldly terms,
we would call the astral realm.
And they talk about
these high places.
And in these high places,
there dwells spiritual forces
of darkness.
That's the way some of
the translations word it.
If you look at the Greek
word, darkness, it's "skotia."
And what it means in the
context of that verse,
if you delve into the full--
Koine Greek is a
multifaceted language.
There's double and triple
meanings and nuances
to the language.
It's a full language.
And if you look at that word
"skotia," which means darkness,
it doesn't just mean
evil or bad or sin
or you did something wrong.
It's a kind of a
darkness that is
allowed to prevail when humans
are ignorant of divine things.
And this is according to the
Thayer's Greek concordance.
Divine or human ignorance
of divine things
becomes a portal to which
human beings can be deceived.
And so when we're
dealing with things
that are of a higher vibration
or have higher knowledge
than we do, there can be
wolves in sheep's clothing.
And we can get too cocky.
And if we're up in the astral
realm, and we're being told,
you're special, you're a
chosen one, you have a gift,
we need you, if we just
take that verbatim,
and we just strip off all
of our protective armor,
there's a point where we're
going to be vulnerable.
>>NOORY: Do you
find that separating
the physical and the
spiritual is good or harmful?
>>ANDERSON: I feel that,
ultimately, it's harmful.
We live in an era now, we're
civilized, we're educated.
And church and state
need to be separated.
The supernatural and the
spiritual need to be separated.
And this goes back,
again, to HP Lovecraft,
that the sciences
have all strained
in their own directions and
have hitherto harmed us little.
They've harmed us little because
when they become dissociated,
we don't understand that
they were once connected.
And if you want to bring
this into scientific terms,
quantum entanglement.
If everything's entangled,
and we're down here trying
to untangle it, all we're going
to do is cause more confusion.
>>NOORY: And chaos.
>>ANDERSON: And chaos.
In the old days,
in antiquity, there
was no separation
between church and state.
If you were sick, and you
were going to go to a healer,
you went to a temple.
If you wanted
religious services,
you went to the temple.
It was the same facility.
And we see this in
antiquity, in what would
be called the pagan religions.
We even see it in the
judaistic religion,
under the auspices
of the one true God.
There's "New Testament" stories
where Jesus would heal a leper.
And then he would
say, go to the temple
and present yourself
before the high priest.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>ANDERSON: Well, Luke, one of
the guys in his own entourage,
was a physician.
Why not send the
guy with leprosy
to the physician for
the second opinion?
But no, he sent
him to the temple.
And then this gets
into the asklepians
And I don't want to run ahead
if those questions are coming.
>>NOORY: What are they?
What are asklepians?
>>ANDERSON: I spent so
much time researching this.
I didn't get to
the bottom of it.
I have a whole chapter
on this in my book.
It is a fascinating
topic of research.
Around the first
and second century,
so this would have been the
time of Christ and the century
following, they had asklepians,
which were the temples.
And the reason they were called
asklepians is because the God
that they deified, the God
of healing, was Asclepius.
And we hear about Asclepius in
the original Hippocratic oath,
which was originally Greek.
And so it was written in Greek.
And they have a new version now.
They've modernized
it into English.
But the original Hippocratic
oath that all of the physicians
would swear upon
their graduation--
>>NOORY: And still do.
>>ANDERSON: And still do.
But the wording is a
little bit different.
The original Greek is that
they are binding an oath
to Apollos, the physician, his
son, Asclepius, the surgeon.
And then there is a mention
of Hygieia and Panacea,
which are daughters
of Asclepius.
So these are four gods and
goddesses in the pantheon, who
are heads over healing, surgery,
well-being, health, et cetera
Asclepius was known as the
Serpent God of healing.
And this played
into the asklepians.
One thing to note, I
think this is interesting,
one of the phrases that
has become very popular
in Christianity is they refer to
Christ as the great physician.
This is found
nowhere in scripture.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Yeah.
Nowhere in the "Old Testament,"
nowhere in the "New Testament."
In the "Old
Testament," you'll get
the Hebrew phrase,
"Jehovah rapha,"
which is, God, our healer.
That's the closest
you're going to get.
The term "great
physician" is a borrowed
term from the first
and second century,
where Asclepius the
Serpent God of healing,
was the divine physician.
>>NOORY: Was he real?
>>ANDERSON: I
believe that he was.
And in fact, in
the mythology, he
is the son of Apollo,
who was a God.
He was probably a
Watcher or a Titan,
depending on if you're
coming at it from a Hebraic
or a Greek pantheon.
And he had a mortal mother.
So in the realms of theology,
this would make him a Nephilim.
This would be a demigod.
This would be an offspring
of the gods and the mortals.
And so I believe that, at one
time, he was a real demigod.
And we've, of course, made
mythology out of a lot of that.
But even to quote
Tolkien again, Tolkien
wrote what we would call
mythology or fiction.
But if you actually read his
journals and his letters,
he said that he wrote history.
And the original
term, mythology,
if you go all the way back to
the etymology of that word,
mythology at one
time meant history.
And we've turned that
now into fiction.
And so we look at the Greek
gods and the mythologies
and these pantheons of gods as
if they were all just made up
or oral traditions.
But if you go all the way back
into Sumerian, Babylonian,
Akkadian,
Mesopotamian, if you go
into the tablets and
the ancient writings
and the epics of Gilgamesh
and all of those writings,
they were historians.
They were not writing stories
for people's entertainment.
>>NOORY: They were
recording what was going on.
>>ANDERSON: They were recording
what they were seeing.
>>NOORY: What is the
second and third heaven?
>>ANDERSON: Yeah.
So these terms can
sometimes be controversial.
And so I'm just using
them as synonyms.
Pick whatever term you want.
The differentiation
here is if you
go into the Hebraic
understanding of the heavens,
the word "heavens"
is a plural word.
And so if you go in--
>>NOORY: So we're talking
about more than one.
>>ANDERSON: We're
talking of more than one.
The word "heaven" as it appears
in the English translations
of the Bible, it doesn't show
up in any of the original texts.
The word "heaven" in the
original Hebrew texts
were always a plural word.
It had an I-M
>>NOORY: --in heaven.
>>ANDERSON: Heavens.
So in English, we
add an E-S or an S.
And it indicates
multiple or plural.
In the Hebrew, if you add
an I-M, it makes it plural.
So a cherub would be one angel.
The cherubim--
>>NOORY: Would be many.
>>ANDERSON: Exactly.
So the heavens in the
Hebraic, if you go back
into Judaic and rabbinical
teachings and writings,
their philosophy,
their cosmology
was that there
were three heavens.
This differs from Dante
who had the seven levels.
And there's different
schools of thought.
But in the Hebraic
school of thought,
there was the
heavens as we would
describe the visible heavens,
the sky, the stars, the sun,
the moon.
Then there is a layer,
a dimensional layer,
between our visible sky
and the third heaven,
to coin what the
apostle Paul called it,
or what we would call,
the throne room of God,
where we see--
>>NOORY: And this would
be heaven number two.
>>ANDERSON: So the astral
realm or the second heaven,
the astral plane,
or the high places
is what scripture calls it,
this is the intermediary.
It is the dimension between the
physical and the throne room.
And these high places, this
is when we have out-of-body
experiences, when
we astral project,
when we are in ayahuasca
or in some altered state
of consciousness, if we are
communicating with an ascended
master--
>>NOORY: We're on that level.
>>ANDERSON: We're in
that second level.
>>NOORY: And then the
third would be what?
>>ANDERSON: The third level
would be the actual throne
room of God.
So when John the revelator
talks about seeing the Lamb that
was slain sitting on a
throne and the cherubim
and the seraphim around him with
the eyes and the wings saying,
holy, holy, holy, that
would be the third heaven.
>>NOORY: Now, how
do these heavens
tie into the so-called
threshold of covenants?
>>ANDERSON: Yes, absolutely.
So where my research diverts
from any other research
you're going to see
on sleep paralysis.
So if you go to the church and
say, I have sleep paralysis,
you're probably going to get
the answer that it's demons.
And you did something.
>>NOORY: Or you need a doctor.
>>ANDERSON: Or you need
a doctor or a therapist.
If you go to a doctor, they're
going to say, you need meds.
It might be schizophrenia.
It might be a mental illness.
It might be stress.
It might be narcolepsy.
And I'm not saying that
any of those things
aren't possibilities.
I think there's
many possibilities.
>>NOORY: We can't rule them out.
>>ANDERSON: Exactly.
No.
But where my research
took me, and I
don't hear other
people talking about,
is, it's interesting to me that
these entities, not always,
but I'd say, 7 out of 10
times, if you hear someone tell
a sleep paralysis story, they
wake up in their bedroom,
and they see an entity,
a shadow person,
a half man at the bedroom door.
Now sometimes, it's
already upon them.
>>NOORY: Or exactly
looming over them.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah,
Sometimes, it's
looming on the ceiling.
A lot of times, it's
a black mist or shadow
in the corner of the room.
But the reason why,
even in artwork,
if you Google shadow man,
sleep paralysis, and then hit
Google Images,
most of the artwork
has this shadow man by the
bedroom door, coincidentally.
>>NOORY: Peering down at you.
>>ANDERSON: Peering down
at you, looking ominous.
So what's interesting to
me is that these things
are standing at a threshold.
Now, this immediately made
me think of vampire lore,
where we're told the vampire
cannot come into a home,
can't bite you,
can't seduce you--
>>NOORY: Unless--
>>ANDERSON: Crosses
the threshold.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>ANDERSON: And we've all
seen those old black and white
movies, where you see the
close-up of the boot crossing
over the threshold.
And that's the point
where you're like, oh,
no because you have now
given that entity invitation.
>>NOORY: You've invited them.
>>ANDERSON: You've invited.
That is the linchpin
of understanding
all of this, George.
And this is our power.
This is our kryptonite
as human beings.
This is where we hold the
power of our own protection
if we know how to
not give invitation,
and we know how to
unravel that invitation
once it's been given.
Here's the bad news
about the vampire lore.
>>NOORY: And are
these astral vampires?
>>ANDERSON: Yes.
And that's exactly--
chapter 4 in my book
is called "Astral Vampires
and Threshold Covenants."
>>NOORY: What is
an astral vampire?
>>ANDERSON: An
astral vampire are
these entities that
need permission
to cross the threshold.
But once they have
crossed the threshold,
you are actually in
a covenant with them
because a lot of these
ancient threshold covenants
were linked very closely
to betrothal covenants.
And we even still see aspects
of that in our own culture.
>>NOORY: So you
need to invite them?
>>ANDERSON: You absolutely
have to invite them.
And what's
interesting about that
is, I used to think that this
was like, the rules for ghouls
is what I used to call them.
And the way you keep demons or
entities or vampires or shadow
people away is, you
can't invite them.
But this isn't just a
rule of evil entities.
It's a rule for every spirit
being in the spirit realm,
good or evil.
>>NOORY: Who in their
right mind, though, Vicki,
would invite in an evil spirit?
>>ANDERSON: No one would.
>>NOORY: What kind of
person would do that?
>>ANDERSON: No one would.
And that's why many
of these entities
have become very clever.
This is like "Little
Red Riding Hood."
The wolf's dressed up
like grandma in the bed.
She thinks it's grandma.
And they're very sophisticated
in their disguises.
Sometimes, they come
back as a loved one.
They appear sometimes as someone
we will open the door for.
But it doesn't actually have
to be an entity, either.
There's other methods
of invitation.
Our fear can be invitation.
You can't separate the
sleep paralysis experience
from terror.
And the control--
>>NOORY: No, you can't.
>>ANDERSON: The controlling of--
>>NOORY: They're synonymous.
>>ANDERSON: They
are, absolutely.
There are 365 references in
the "Old and New Testament"
basically, thou shalt not fear,
don't fear, don't be afraid,
be not afraid.
And this isn't just
some cosmic therapy,
or don't worry be happy.
What that is a cipher for
spiritual warfare protection.
If we're not afraid,
it's a shield
that they can't pass through.
It blocks the entrance.
And Robert Monroe in his
"Far Journeys" trilogy talks
about loosh, this concept--
>>GEORGE: He was the expert
in astral projections.
>>VICKI: Yes.
This concept of loosh
is that our fear--
and it doesn't just
have to be fear.
It's any strong human energy.
So this can be any
kind of strong emotion.
It can be fear.
But it can also
be sexual energy,
which is why so many sleep
paralysis experiencers talk
about this incubus,
this succubus,
a rape experience because
that is also loosh.
It's also an invitation.
So if they can work us up into
a frenzy, whether it's sexual
or it's terror, it is
a form of invitation
because it is a drawing like a
magnet of these things to us.
>>NOORY: Another sidebar
with researchers,
let's say, UFO researchers,
for example, a lot of them
are a little skeptical
of sleep paralysis.
They don't get it.
Why is that?
>>ANDERSON: I hope that
this is going to change.
But in the past and even
when I started my research,
I would be reading--
the sleep paralysis
researchers would
want to hitch their cart
to the UFO research horse.
But the UFO experience
researchers,
they did not want
the sleep paralysis
people messing with their
research, understandably so.
And I liken this to
those commercials
back in the '80s, where
you've got two people coming
around a corner, and they
bang into each other,
and you got your chocolate
in my peanut butter,
you got your peanut
butter in my chocolate.
And they didn't want this
mixing, this adulterating
of these silly--
people having nightmares with
this very serious encounter
with spiritual beings, where
they're being abducted,
et cetera, et cetera.
And I agreed with that
for a very long time.
Even in my experiencing
it for 45 years,
I couldn't put the similarities
together until very recently.
I realized that I believe that
the sleep paralysis phenomenon
is also an abduction.
There's different beings.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>ANDERSON: Yep.
There's--
>>NOORY: Interesting take.
>>ANDERSON: --different
beings, different locations,
and different projects.
But it is still an abduction.
You're coming to
people at night.
And the part of the experience--
>>NOORY: And they're
not invited in.
>>ANDERSON: They're
The part that most people
remember of the sleep paralysis
phenomenon is when they wake up.
And most people
think that that's
the whole of a sleep paralysis.
>>NOORY: It's like a dream.
>>ANDERSON: Yes.
I believe that the sleep
paralysis experience
in your bedroom at
night when you're
seeing the things on your
chest or at the door,
I think that is the tail
end of a much lengthier
experience that started
deep in REM phases of sleep.
There was an abduction
to the astral realm.
You come to consciousness.
And your body is
physiologically trying
to send you every
communication that it
can that it's in fight or
flight, high adrenaline mode.
Your heart is racing.
You're sweating.
All the saliva in your
mouth is dried up.
You're in panic mode.
But you don't have a memory
of the full experience.
>>NOORY: Maybe that's a
way of the body preventing
further disruption.
>>ANDERSON: Absolutely.
I do believe it is a
form of dissociation
for our protection.
But here's the clever
aspect of sleep paralysis.
Most experiencers of
the UFO phenomenon
don't remember exactly
what happened to them.
But they know something occurred
because there's missing time.
When we wake up, and six,
seven, eight hours have gone by,
even if we've had
a nightmare, even
if we've had an
experience, we're savvy,
and we know that was
an astral experience,
we usually wake up
with no question
as to all of that missing
time because we were asleep.
>>NOORY: How soon when
we're asleep, Vicki,
does the sleep
paralysis take effect?
>>ANDERSON: It can take
effect at any point
that you're falling
into or out of sleep.
And there's fancy
scientific terms for this.
It's hypnopompic and
hypnogogic, depending
on whether you're getting
it as you go to sleep
or coming out of sleep.
I always had it
coming out of sleep.
And I found that the
few times in my life I
had it while drifting
off to sleep,
I was able to shake myself out
of it very quickly and easily
and wake myself up.
>>NOORY: Is it genetic?
Did your parents have the
same thing happen to them?
>>ANDERSON: I don't
believe my parents did.
But I do believe that
it can be genetic.
I've had people contact me,
where they said they had it,
and their grandparents
have had it,
and now their children
are having it.
But I think a more accurate
word to use, even, would be--
I think it can be
related to bloodline.
I think that the
individuals that are being--
for I don't like this word,
but for lack of a better word,
the individuals that are being
targeted or chosen for this
operation--
>>NOORY: Chosen.
>>ANDERSON: Or if
you would do research
into your family
history, I think
you would find that
it's not random.
They're not randomly
picking because--
and this is where I diverge
from the church's explanation
that it has to be a
demon attack because you
played with the Ouija board,
or you did some bad thing.
Because there's a lot
of people out there
who have done those things that
never have sleep paralysis.
And so there's
something more to it.
And a lot of times, if you
go into your deep study
of genealogical
record, you might
find that you have some
affiliation to a bloodline
of some importance.
It could be a royal bloodline.
It could be a bloodline
that goes all the way back
to the dragon courts of old.
They're choosing
you because they're
keeping it in the family.
Like the Royals, they
keep it in the family.
You are chosen because you
are of that special family.
And that's how they
bank on reeling you in.
>>NOORY: Do you
want to be chosen?
>>ANDERSON: I personally
don't, George,
because I understand that the
realm that I am being taken
into, the classroom that
I'm being taken into--
>>NOORY: The scope.
>>ANDERSON: Yeah, the
scope, the teachers
that there are not
necessarily on the side
that I've chosen to be on.
And so it's like you
got two football teams.
And you can't play
for both teams.
And when you look at it
from a cosmic perspective,
and don't look at
it just in terms
of our physical
life here, if you
look at it from a
cosmic perspective,
there is a spiritual dimension
and a spiritual reality
that is going on beyond the
veil now that's complicated.
There's characters.
>>NOORY: At what point, though,
when all this is happening,
do your dreams turn a little
sinister, a little weird?
>>ANDERSON: Yeah, absolutely.
So if you have it enough, you
can begin to see the signs.
And I like the way
they portrayed this
in the movie "Inception."
The main character, the
Leo DiCaprio character,
he lost track of when he was
in these other dream worlds
and dimensions and when he
was in the terrestrial realm.
So he had a totem.
He had this little
top he would spin.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>ANDERSON: And there's
ways to do this.
One thing that is
so fascinating,
George, that I figured out
after decades of observation
is, when I would
wake up in my room,
my bedroom would
be 99% accurate,
but there's always a glitch.
>>NOORY: What's the glitch?
>>ANDERSON: There's
something in your room,
if you can observe it.
And this is hard because when
you're in fight or flight,
and you're in terror, you are
striving so hard to just wake
up that you're not
observing around the room.
>>NOORY: The things
that are happening.
Yeah.
>>ANDERSON: But there's
always one thing
in that room that's off.
So you're going to notice
a door on the wrong wall,
or the wall is painted
the wrong color.
>>NOORY: What do you mean
a door on the wrong wall?
>>ANDERSON: So if
your bed is set up
in such a way that if you woke
up you'd see your bedroom door,
maybe in this dream
sense, your room
looks exactly the way it should,
but the door is on this wall.
Or maybe the curtains that
are hanging up aren't--
>>NOORY: And you created
this in your mind?
>>ANDERSON: Well, what
I think it could be.
And I'm still in the stages
of researching this, George,
and talking to other people.
But what I've come
to understand is
that this is some sort of
an overlay on the third eye
or the mind's eye.
It's a hijacking of
the visual cortex.
>>NOORY: If you
had your druthers,
Vicki, would you want
sleep paralysis or not?
>>ANDERSON: I would not.
I would not, which is
why I've spent years
researching and writing a book.
>>NOORY: But we don't
have a choice, do we?
>>ANDERSON: That's
a really good point.
There are a lot of the
people that contact me.
They're contacting me
because they feel targeted.
They feel like they're
being harassed.
>>NOORY: Well,
they probably are.
>>ANDERSON: They are.
And I do think that there are
ways to significantly reduce
the occurrences.
And I do think that
there's ways to stop it.
There are people
who have stopped it.
Now, the caveat
with that, George,
is I thought mine went away
because I had a 15-year hiatus,
where I never had it.
And I was like, took care of it.
And it came back.
And not only did it come back,
but it came back in spades.
And so sometimes,
it just goes latent.
Or sometimes, it goes away.
But then they come in
through a back door.
And they're
communicating with us
in a different way through our
dreams or through lucid dreams
or through other
sorts of things.
I liken it unto a
security system.
We can put a security
system in our home.
And that is going to
significantly reduce
the chances of our
being hurt because we're
going to be given an
advance warning to wake up
and take action before
that burglar gets
all the way upstairs.
>>NOORY: But our
security system, Vicki,
is only good until you arm it.
>>ANDERSON: It's only
good until you arm it.
And it doesn't
mean, no one's going
to try to break in, right?
>>NOORY: And if they
do, what happens?
>>ANDERSON: But if they
do, you are now prepared.
And one of the things that I
tell people who have not had
a lot of luck
combating this-- again,
we're going back to the fear
the invitation, the loosh--
is, if you start to think in
terms of offensive measures
rather than defensive measures
when these things come
into your room,
when you're in fear,
and you are only acting
defensively-- get away from me,
get away from me,
get away from me--
they still have the upper
hand because you're in terror.
You have to start
working offensively.
>>NOORY: Vicki, how do
people get a hold of you?
>>ANDERSON: So you
can get a hold of me
at vickijoyanderson.com.
You can get me on
Instagram, @vickijoyauthor.
And you can get my book,
"They Only Come Out at Night,
Exposing the Dark Weapon
of Sleep Paralysis,"
exclusively on lamarzulli.net.
>>NOORY: Vicki, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>ANDERSON: Thanks, George.
It's great being here.
>>NOORY: Sleep paralysis
is no laughing matter.
If it happens to
you, you will know
exactly what we've been talking
about on "Beyond Belief."
And you don't want
that to happen.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]